# csgo_model-detection
A Project for Machine Learning 3 Course of Asian Institute of Management's Master of Science in Data Science 2023 



Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Gaming is such a perfect pair due to two reasons: the vast amount of data sourced from the game that can be used to train AI models and algorithms, and the variety of applications AI can be utilized in gaming such as Game Testing, Cheat Detection, Non-playable Character Modelling, etc. The current advances in AI has now revolved into Deep Learning which uses deep neural networks with multiple layers. These layers are a kind of computational model inspired by the human brain and are used to analyze various factors with a complex structure. Deep Learning techniques are especially useful when dealing with unstructured data, such as images, text, or sound which gaming encompasses. In this notebook, we look at how Deep Learning models can have a high impact on a popular game which is CSGO.

Counter-Strike: Global Offensive or most commonly known as CSGO, is a popular online multiplayer first-person shooter video game developed by Valve Corporation and Hidden Path Entertainment. It's the fourth game in the Counter-Strike series and was released in August 2012. It remains an extremely popular game in 2023, both in terms of active players and viewership on platforms like Twitch and YouTube.

The game pits two teams against each other: the Terrorists and the Counter-Terrorists. The objective varies depending on the game mode but generally involves completing objectives or eliminating the enemy team. Completing these objectives, especially in high level gameplay and in the professional scene, requires pinpoint accuracy not just in aiming and shooting your opponents. The accuracy should extend to the identification of the opponent which can be challenging due to terrain or maps and the strategy. The player should be recognized even if only a portion of the body is shown since this may be the only chance to eliminate the opponent.

The notebook aims to showcase two deep learning models, a player detection which takes a csgo screenshot image as input and outputs the same image but overlays a bounding box on the detected player while indicating a confidence value (0 - 1) of the detected object as a player. The next model is to classify the images detected in the first model into which team the player is in, basing on a manually labeled ground truth of the images.

DATA SOURCE
The dataset set is collection of in-game images of csgo matches from https://universe.roboflow.com/asd-culfr/wlots/dataset/1. The dataset contains ~4500 images which is divided into train, validation and test sets which includes different angles of the game. The dataset contains images of different player perspective with majority being the first person point of view of the player while others are close-up look of the player. There are also images that show player being far to the point that it is barely visible and pixelated while others include only the body parts of the player. Initial preprocessing of the dataset included applied auto-orient, resizing of image to 416x416. Augmentation of the images include 3 outputs per training example and setting of brightness between -15% and +15%.
